Why another remote radio system?
--------------------------------

mrig and mrigd are the client and the server of yet another remote radio
system; they have been written as a proof of concept, trying to study
a new (as far as I know) way to control a radio transceiver over the Internet.

One problem to be solved is the unfriendliness of the CAT protocol of
some ham radio transceivers. Some rigs (such as the one I have used to write
this proof of concept) need, as far as I know, several commands to modify
the value of just one of its features. This could be a problem if the CAT
commands and their responses arrive to their destination with some delay,
for instance when using the Internet as a transport to the CAT messages.

Usual remote control programs just send each CAT command through the Internet,
and wait for a response, so the CAT traffic is going forward and back several
times, getting the delay multiplied. In my view, it is better to place a
server near the rig, and let the CAT client send just one high level command
to that server. Then, the server will translate the high level command to the
required low level commands, which will get their responses with negligible
delay, since the server is near the rig (ideally in the same LAN).

Another problem is the inefficiency of the remote poll of the radio features
through the Internet. The ham radio operator needs to be informed about
several properties of the rig in real time, if possible: s-meter, ALC, SWR...
Instead of sending a high level command for each one of these features,
wait the Internet delay, obtaining the feature value at the server, wait
another Internet delay and receiving the value at the client, it is better
to have the server poll the rig transceiver and send the results in a UDP
datagram, with only one delay.

To further optimise the user experience, the system should poll the most
critical features (such as the SWR or the ALC) more often, and the least
critical ones (such as the DSP status) less often.

mrig and mrigd are the implementation of such ideas as a proof of concept.
